- [Instructor] So far, we have deployed a Helm chart
to our Kubernetes cluster, which has one Java application
and that Java application returns a response,
a simple response, hello.
Now, we want to deploy an application
to our Kubernetes cluster which has two Java applications.
One of them returns a response of hello
and the other one returns a response of howdy.
And then we're going to have some fun with Istio,
using those two applications.
Now, remember, we talked about
Istio works using a sidecar.
Particularly, in this case, it is Uwise Sidecar Proxy.
So how do we tell Kubernetes cluster
to make sure for every deployment
inject a sidecar proxy?
Well, there are a couple of ways to do that.
The first one is by which we can say,
for any object that is injected
into the default namespace, give it a label,
call it Istio-injection=enabled
and once you give that label,
essentially, Istio will make sure
that this sidecar which is injected
into each deployment.
Let's try that first.
Copy.
I'm into the workspace directory.
Paste.
And now, my default namespace is labeled
with Istio-injection=enabled.
Now, we understand, in certain cases,
you may not have the ability to add
any random label to the namespace.
It may be a different namespace.
In which case, you can use Istioctl in the CLI.
That is in Istio download main directory
and then you can use Istioctl kube-inject command
to point to your manifest,
which will generate a new manifest,
which will have a sidecar already mentioned
into your part spec.
Then you can take that new manifest
and kubectl apply it so that now
when your manifest is deployed to the Kubernetes cluster,
it has not only your application container
or any other container that you've specified,
but in addition, it also has that sidecar container.
But we're using the default namespace injection here
so let's go ahead and deploy our application.
Manifest/charts.
Let's see what applications are deployed
using Help right now.
Istio, of course, we installed that, and myapp.
Let's delete the myapp application first.
Helm delete myapp and purge it.
So that deletes my application.
Now, I'm going to go to myapp-hello-howdy, okay?
And if I go to the templates directory,
because this is a Helms chart,
if you look at the listing here,
there is a greeting deployment hello
and a greeting deployment howdy.
Now, these are two separate files
with two separate deployments.
One of them points to a Docker image,
which has a Spring Boot application
that returns a response hello.
And the other one points to a Spring Boot application
that returns a response howdy.
Let's look at these two files.
So greeting-deployment-hello and greeting-deployment-howdy.
The first one is greeting-hello,
the part specs has labels app: greeting
and greeting and this is the value defined
in the values.yaml of the Helm chart
and then the usual stuff over here.
If I look at greeting-deployment-howdy,
the name is greeting-howdy, same replicas,
app: greeting and the howdy tag,
and of course the image here, of course,
is using the howdy tag, as well.
So, let's go ahead and install this Helm chart.
Make sure we are in the right directory.
Then we say Helm install, name myapp,
and in this case, we need to say myapp-hello-howdy.
The service is going to get deployed here.
One of the things I want to point out here
is service also has the type as ClusterIP.
We don't want the service in this case
to be published as an external load balancer.
As we will see in the next chapter,
we will create a Istio Indress Gateway,
because that's essentially what
will help us guide the traffic splitting.
So let's look at kubectl get deployments.
We got two deployments and they're both looking good.
Get pods.
There are two pods.
Two of two, one application container.
Second is the sidecar container.
Was looking good.
Now, let's look at the two containers
that are in the pod and that I can get
by kubectl get pods.
I can say show me all the pods
that have the label greeting=hello
and now I'm going to use a jsonpath here
so call it jsonpath here and in this json path,
what I'm going to specify is,
show me all the items that are in there.
In the items, give me their parts spec.
Then pick up all the containers over there
and then give me their name and this is my command
and when I place Enter, I get greeting
and Istio-proxy as my two containers
for running for greeting=hello.
Now, I can repeat the same command
and this time, we can do the same for howdy,
and what we'll get is again, creating an Istio-proxy
because essentially, the containers
within the deployment are still called as greeting.
So now what we have done is,
we have deployed the same Java application
but now it has two deployments.
One returning hello, one returning howdy.